OSDOCS#12883: Granting user access to OLMv1 extension resources (#88048)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/olmv1-granting-user-access-aggregated.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * extensions/ce/user-access-resources.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="olmv1-granting-user-access-aggregated_{context}"]
= Granting user access to extension resources by using aggregated cluster roles

As a cluster administrator, you can configure role-based access control (RBAC) policies to grant user access to extension resources by using aggregated cluster roles.

To automatically extend existing default cluster roles, you can add _aggregation labels_ by adding one or more of the following labels to a `ClusterRole` object:

[source,yaml]
----
# ..
metadata:
  labels:
    rbac.authorization.k8s.io/aggregate-to-admin: "true"
    rbac.authorization.k8s.io/aggregate-to-edit: "true"
    rbac.authorization.k8s.io/aggregate-to-view: "true"
# ..
----

> This allows users who already have `view`, `edit`, or `admin` roles to interact with the cluster extension's custom resource without requiring additional role or cluster role bindings. 

Reviewer: Sorry if I am nitpicking

```suggestion
This allows users who already have `view`, `edit`, or `admin` roles to interact with the custom resource of the cluster extension without requiring additional role or cluster role bindings. 
```

https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-possessives

> Do not use possessive ’s with inanimate objects.

.Prerequisites

* A cluster extension has been installed on your cluster.
* You have a list of API groups and resource names, as described in "Finding API groups and resources exposed by a cluster extension".

.Procedure

> . Create a cluster role that specifies a cluster extension's provided API groups and resources and add an aggregation label to extend one or more existing default cluster roles:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a cluster role that specifies provided API groups and resources of a cluster extension and add an aggregation label to extend one or more existing default cluster roles:
```

+
.Example `ClusterRole` object with an aggregation label
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: view-custom-resource-aggregated
  labels:
    rbac.authorization.k8s.io/aggregate-to-view: "true"
rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - <cluster_extension_api_group>
    resources:
      - <cluster_extension_custom_resource>
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
----
+
You can create similar `ClusterRole` objects for `edit` and `admin` with appropriate verbs, such as `create`, `update`, and `delete`. By using aggregation labels, the permissions for the custom resources are added to the default roles.
+

> Save your definition to a YAML file.

Reviewer: IMO, this can be an individual step but up to you.
